Now that we have a good grasp of network optimizations Let's talk about what happens once the files
arrive in the browser.
How can we optimize this step.
See.
Up until this point we have a pretty simplified view of what happens inside of a browser.
The shemale arrives and then all these other files magically arrive as well.
But what actually happens inside the hood.
Grab your rain jackets we're diving in deep.
Let's explore.
So we have our typical diagram here of client and server and the very first step is well you request
a Web site and then the server returns and ASTM all file.
Now inside of that browser the Shemar file arrives and the browser starts reading it and as soon as
a shim all arrives it starts creating something called the dong the document object model.
And when the browser parses or read T.M. it incrementally generates this tree model of the HTML tags
that we need to build for the Web site the.
And this Dom describes the contents of the page but then just as it's about to start doing that it encounters
a style link to grab the CSSA.
So it asks for the CSSA file from the server and then the CSSA file arise and it gets back to working
on the Dom creating the structure of the Web site.
Now once the browser receives all the CSX it also starts generating a tree model called CSX on and this
CSSA object model has the styling information attached to the tree nodes and this tree describes how
the content is styled and it's working and it's working and is building this tree and then all of a
sudden it sees a javascript tag a script tag so it grabs it from the server and the javascript derives.
But it's also going to read the javascript file.
And this javascript file is read by the browser and executes any changes that it might want onto the
DOM and the CSSA.
Now once all that's done the browser combines the DOM and the CSSA arm into a render tree.
And this render tree has both information from a shemale and the styling and layout information of CSSA
by combining the DOM and the success on the browser constructs this render tree so knows exactly what
to render on the page.
So now the browser uses this render tree to figure out the layout
is going to forget about all these files and then it's going to figure out the layout.
Where should I position these items in one location.
What with what height and wants is figure that out is going to paint all the pixels in guess what at
the end of all of that.
We finally have our Web page displaying on the browser.
Now you may be thinking what about images while those are happening to whenever the browser encounters
an image tag.
It will start downloading them as soon as it sees it.
But the neat thing about images it's it's not part of this process images are just kind of downloaded
in the background.
And once they're loaded they will appear on the screen.
You see what we've just learned is called the Critical render path and it is one of the most important
concepts for optimizing browser performance.
This path shows what it takes to paint the Web site on the screen.
It looks like so many steps but in real life that happens fairly quickly right.
Surprising that so many things need to happen in order for us to view a web site and once again just
like we were able to optimize the network performance.
We can now optimize this path and in the next videos we're going to do just that.
Let's go one by one and see how we can improve each step of the critical render path.
I'll see you in the next video.